In the last session, we containerized all the components of our system.
We did that one by one.
And now what we're going to do is we're going to add a few more features to it, like we are going to
add Docker network and then we are going to add Docker volumes.
So first, I'm going to explain you why we are going to do this and then we will actually do this.
So all our components that so far.
They were running on a horse machine that we have on the cloud and they were using the host machine
network.
So if you have to make a call from web application to, let's say, some service, let's authorization
service.
Then we were making this call by calling this authorization service or as localhost, similarly from
services when we were calling database.
We were again using hostname as local.
Now that's not a configuration of a real system in real system.
We will have real machines or virtual machines, and they will have their host names.
So we want to simulate that.
Now we can simulate that by putting all these Docker containers in Docker created network.
Let's call it Docker network.
It's a bridge network that we can create on the host machine, and we can put all those containers in
that network.
So when we do that, we can call our services, let's say, authorization service, if you want to call
it.
We don't need to use localhost as the hostname we can use authorization service as the host me or whatever
hostname we provide.
So that's one thing we are going to do.
Now the other thing that that's happening along with this is last time when we launched our system,
we were we launched it using only authorization.
So this now we're going to even launch product order inventory and admin service.
So these are similar services configuration are absolutely similar.
The functionality is different, but the way we have to do Docker configuration is absolutely same.
Apart from these functional services, we are going to even add an admin service.
It's so restful service which we can use for creating and deleting data.
So things like that, we can even monitor our application for that.
We will also start an admin service.
So the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to create a Docker network, and this will
simulate a distributed system on a single host machine.
So only containers that you will see, they will be running as if they are running on their host machine.
So in these diagrams and the diagrams that will follow from here, you will see these containers as
machines.
So these are actually not machines.
They are containers only.
But the way we will work them, we will get a feel of as if we are working with these multiple host
machines.
So we will keep our architecture diagrams like this.
This is how we want to implement them in real life.
Right.
When we are using separate separate hose machines, but we can simulate that environment within Docker
network on a single host machine that gives us convenience to work on our system, on a single machine
so that that's a big gain.
Now there is another thing that we are going to do as part of this exercise is that we are going to
create Docker volumes.
Now, why do we need Docker volumes?
We need Docker volumes because the files that were getting created on different containers, so that's
it.
If we create some data on our database, that database will save their data on data files.
Now there are these data files to get it.
They are located within the container.
For some reason, if, let's say, we delete this container, we will lose these data files in containers
is something which are generally ephemeral.
We bring them up, we stop them, we delete them.
We do not want our data files to be stored inside a container because there is a risk of losing them.
So what we are going to do is we are going to create Docker volumes on the host machine so we can create
multiple volumes or we can create a single volume on which we can put all these weights.
So we will see them.
So let's say we have created a Docker volume on our host machine.
Now we can use this Docker volume and we can associate this Docker volumes with the data files of this
database.
So whatever data is saved on this database is actually gets saved on the host volume itself, which
is managed by Docker.
In reality, there is nothing that this container will save on the low container local database.
It will get saved on the hostwinds and how we maintain these files on the host.
That is our responsibility.
Similarly, these log files, so let's add these services.
They are generating some log quest.
They will also be mapped to our Docker volume.
Similarly for web applications, so wherever we need to store data permanently, we will need to store
that data file data on Docker volumes.
So now we are going to go ahead and we are going to actually start our system on Docker containers using
Docker volumes.